 Introduction 

Tibetan Society on the Eve of  Incorporation into China
Political systems have ideologies that summarize and rationalize their basic premises. In Tibet, society and government were based on a value system in which religious goals and activities were paramount. The Tibetan state as headed by the Dalai Lama was founded in the mid-seventeenth century after decades of bitter sectarian conflict. The new theocratic government saw its mission as the support and enhancement of Buddhism, particularly its own “yellow hat” (or Gelugpa) sect. Tibetans conceived of this as a system of “religion and government joined together” (tib. chösi nyiden), because the ruler, the Dalai Lama, was an incarnation of the Bodhisattva Avaloketisvara, and monks served alongside laymen to administer the country. Moreover, beginning in the eighteenth century, the regents who ruled during the dalai lamas’ minorities were also incarnate lamas. Tibetans considered their country unique because of this “dual system” of government. The depth of this belief was conveyed in a letter the Tibetan government sent to Chiang Kai-shek in 1946: “There are many great nations on this earth who have achieved unprecedented wealth and might, but there is only one nation which is dedicated to the well-being of humanity in the world and that is the religious land of Tibet which cherishes a joint spiritual and temporal system.”

To understand twentieth-century Tibetan history, therefore, it is necessary to understand that Tibet was, in many fundamental ways, a premodern theocratic polity, and this was not because of any unusual isolation. In the twentieth century, Tibet looked modernity straight in the eyes and rejected change and adaptation. Its leaders saw Tibet’s greatness in its religious institutions and held strongly that these should be continued without competition or contamination from “modern” institutions such as public schools or a professional army.2
THE GOVERNMENT
The Tibetan government in 1951 consisted of a system of hierarchically(བླ་དཔོན་གྱིས་དབང་བསྒྱུར་བའི། བླ་གཞུང་གི་) arranged offices staffed by a bureaucracy (དཔོན་དབང་སྲིད་གཞུང་)of roughly five hundred officials, about half of whom were monk officials and half lay aristocratic officials.3 Virtually all offices and positions in that government were headed by lay and monk officials jointly sharing power. This tiny bureaucracy was able to administer a country the size of western Europe, because the Tibetan government operated under a minimalist philosophy in which most governmental functions were performed by local lords who held manorial estates.
The lay official segment of the government was recruited from a hereditary aristocracy that consisted of about two hundred families. Each aristocratic family held at least one manorial estate with attached peasant families and in return was required to send at least one male family member to serve as a government official (with no salary). Serving the government as a lay official was technically an obligation but in reality was a carefully guarded prerogative. With the exception of the families of the successive dalai lamas and, in the twentieth century, a few very rich trading families, nonnobles could not become lay government officials.
The monk official segment of the government was recruited primarily from a small number of monasteries, principally the three huge monasteries around Lhasa (Sera, Drepung, and Ganden) but also a few others such as Muru and Shide. These monk officials were required to be celibate but did not live in monasteries and were not active in the affairs of their original monasteries. Instead they were specially trained for administrative service in the Tselabdra, a government school located in the Potala. They became bureaucrats much like their lay aristocratic counterparts, although, unlike the aristocrats, they were celibate monks and had no estates.


The Tibetan government was headed by a ruler, the Dalai Lama, or in his minority, a regent. The ruler ideally had ultimate authority over all decisions and appointments, and, theoretically, all recommendations for action had to be submitted to him for approval.

The Dalai Lama himself is recruited by incarnation. In other words, within one to three years after a Dalai Lama dies, he chooses his successor by incarnating his “essence” into the fetus of a boy. The task of the traditional Tibetan government and regent, therefore, was to identify that child from among the tens of thousands of boys born within a few years of the death of the last Dalai Lama.
To do this, the Tibetan government or regent examined dreams, visions, miraculous events, and the like to focus the search geographically and then sent out a series of search teams to try to discover young boys who might be the new incarnation. As potential candidates for the new Dalai Lama were identified, the small children were tested by showing them pairs of items— one personally owned by the late Dalai Lama and another that was identical but new. The correct child was expected to choose the things he had used in his previous incarnation, not the new and shiny ones. Ultimately, the next Dalai Lama was chosen from the pool of several “candidate-children” who had been identified by the different search teams; then he was brought back to Lhasa, where he studied religion with tutors. This system effectively transferred the charisma of the previous incarnation to the new one and legitimized the selection.

During the Dalai Lama’s minority, Tibet was ruled by a regent, who held power until the Dalai Lama reached age eighteen. At this time, the Dalai Lama assumed political power for the remainder of his life. However, even after a dalai lama formally assumed power, how much he was really able to exercise has varied according to circumstances and the particular dalai lama involved.


The Dalai Lama was surrounded by a small number of monk attendants and government monk officials who served him in his personal household and his secretariat office (called the Tse ga).4 One of the most important of these was the jigyab khembo. He was a high monk official who was in charge of the Dalai Lama’s personal treasury and his three chief personal attendants.5 The jigyab khembo had a high status and was entitled to sit with the Kashag, although he usually did so only if the Dalai Lama had something to say to the Kashag or vice versa.
The other major monk official in the Dalai Lama’s secretariat was the lord chamberlain (tib. drönyerchemmo). He was the conduit to the Dalai Lama for such things as private petitions and requests for audiences, so although lower in rank than the jigyab khembo, he could be extremely powerful, because he controlled access to the Dalai Lama. In the period covered by this history, Phala was the influential and powerful lord chamberlain.  
Also important in the Dalai Lama’s entourage were his senior and junior tutors (and their assistants). They had constant access to the Dalai Lama and were also influential. Ling Rimpoche and Trijang Rimpoche were, respectively, the senior and junior tutors during the 1950s.  

A number of factors affected the Dalai Lama’s ability to wield power effectively. One of the most circumscribing factors was his physical isolation from virtually everyone in his kingdom. The Dalai Lama was cloistered in his palaces and had no informal contact outside of those immediately around him. The Dalai Lama, therefore, was dependent on information coming to him from other offices and officials, particularly those in his immediate entourage, and it actually took an active effort on the part of a dalai lama to overcome this institutionalized isolation. This problem was exacerbated by the tactics of the bureaucracy, especially the Kashag, the highest office in the Tibetan government.


The Kashag (Council of Ministers) traditionally consisted of four ministers (tib. kalön), one of whom was a monk official, but in modern times this number was not strictly adhered to. In 1951, for example, there were eight (full and acting) ministers.6 These were appointed by the ruler for life from a short list of nominees prepared by the Kashag itself. Although the ruler was not limited to choosing from the Kashag’s list, normally he did so. Supporting these ministers was a small staff of six or seven junior aristocratic officials.

The Kashag was the administrative center of the Tibetan government for secular affairs and also functioned as the Tibetan equivalent of a paramount court of appeals. It was the only office that could send secular items to the ruler for approval and, therefore, was the only secular office that could have direct contact with him. All other secular offices had to go through the Kashag to obtain a decision from the ruler. The Kashag also was responsible for making nominations for appointments and promotions (of lay officials).

Under the Kashag, a hierarchy of offices handled the business of government. Most were headed by both monk and lay officials, but the two most important, the Revenue Office (tib. Tsigang) and the Ecclesiastic Office (tib. Yigtsang), were headed, respectively, by four lay officials (tib. tsipön) and four monk officials (tib. trunyichemmo). The Ecclesiastic Office dealt with religious affairs and the government’s monk officials; and the Revenue Office, with issues of revenue, taxes, and secular affairs. Traditionally, there were no portfolios in the Kashag, and decision making was done collectively, with consensus required for action. The fundamental power of the Kashag was that no secular matter could reach the ruler for settlement without first passing through its hands. Tibetans, therefore, often spoke of it as the throat through which all governmental matters must pass.

